docs(common): Add KB for null exception (#2477)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/common-struct-error.md

type: troubleshooting
page_title: Struct data source causes exception
slug: common-kb-struct-error
tags: telerik, blazor, autocomplete, breadcrumb, chart, chiplist, combobox, contextmenu, drawer, dropdownlist, filemanager, gantt, grid, listbox, listview, menu, multicolumncombobox, multiselect, panelbar, pivotgrid, radiogroup, sankey, scheduler, stock chart, treelist, treeview, struct, null exception
ticketid: 1657421
res_type: kb
---

## Environment
<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Autocomplete for Blazor, Breadcrumb for Blazor, Chart for Blazor, ChipList for Blazor, ComboBox for Blazor, ContextMenu for Blazor, Drawer for Blazor, DropDownList for Blazor, FileManager for Blazor, Gantt for Blazor, Grid for Blazor, ListBox for Blazor, ListView for Blazor, Menu for Blazor, MultiColumnComboBox for Blazor, MultiSelect for Blazor, PanelBar for Blazor, PivotGrid for Blazor, RadioGroup for Blazor, Sankey for Blazor, Scheduler for Blazor, Stock Chart for Blazor, TreeList for Blazor, TreeView for Blazor</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## Description
When using a databound component the application gets a null exception and the component does not work.

## Error Message

> When running a Telerik Blazor application the application gets an error similar to the following:

Reviewer: The error message belongs in the **Description** section.

```
ArgumentNullException: Value cannot be null. (Parameter 'source')
System.Linq.ThrowHelper.ThrowArgumentNullException(ExceptionArgument argument)
```

> ## Example to Reproduce

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reproduce the problem, you can use the following code sample:
```

        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Name)" />
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Price)" />
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Released)" />
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(Product.Discontinued)" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

@code {
    private List<Product> GridData { get; set; } = new();

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GridData = new List<Product>();

        var rnd = new Random();

        for (int i = 1; i <= 30; i++)
        {
            GridData.Add(new Product
                {
                    Id = i,
                    Name = "Product name " + i,
                    Price = (decimal)(rnd.Next(1, 50) * 3.14),
                    Released = DateTime.Now.AddDays(-rnd.Next(1, 365)).AddYears(-rnd.Next(1, 10)).Date,
                    Discontinued = i % 5 == 0
                });

        }

        base.OnInitialized();
    }

    public struct Product
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public decimal Price { get; set; }
        public DateTime Released { get; set; }
        public bool Discontinued { get; set; }
    }
}
````

## Possible Cause

> The reason for this error is because the component is databound to a `struct`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not bind Telerik UI for Blazor components to a `struct` component model. This causes a null exception.
```

## Solution

> The solution is to use a `class` model, not a `struct`, as documented in the red note [here]({%slug common-features-data-binding-overview%}#how-to-provide-data):

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Always bind the component to a `class` model, not a `struct`. For more information, see [Data Binding Overview]({%slug common-features-data-binding-overview%}#how-to-provide-data).
```

<div class="skip-repl"></div>

````CS
    public class Product
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public decimal Price { get; set; }
        public DateTime Released { get; set; }
        public bool Discontinued { get; set; }
    }
````

> ## See Also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## See Also

```
